# SCED-Net: Coupling dual-branch and encoder-decoder network for identification and delineation of municipal solid waste from VHR images
## Abstract
Monitoring municipal solid waste (MSW) with remote sensing images is of great significance to urban environment and well-beings of city residences. Existing studies have employed very-high-resolution (VHR) images for identifying MSWs. However, automating such a task is challenging due to the complexed and irregular spectra and geometry characteristics of MSWs. In this letter, a novel approach which adopts a dual-branch network and an encoder-decoder architecture, named SCED-Net, to improve the identification and delineation of MSW is proposed. First, a dual-branch network consisting of a convolutional neural network (CNN) and a Swin-Transformer (S-T) is proposed for classifying image patches and improving the accuracy of MSW identification. Second, an encoder-decoder architecture, in which the encoder shares the above dual-branch network while the decoder uses upsampling layers, is proposed for segmenting image patches and delineating MSW boundaries. The proposed method was applied to identifying and delineating MSW boundaries in Guangzhou city, Guangdong Province, China. Evaluations showed that our proposed network achieved an OA of 87.6% in MSW identification, and a PA of 96.2% in MSW delineation, significantly better than existing methods.
## I. INTRODUCTION
During the past twenty years, China has witnessed rapid urbanization and fast-rising population in cities. However, the production of municipal solid waste (MSW) has also substantially increased. MSW usually refers to solid or half-solid dumps produced by human beings and commercial institutes during the process of manufacture, construction, and daily life. It includes household waste, building and demolition waste, industrial refuse and so on. Careless disposal and poor management of MSW can bring disasters to human wellbeing, such as occupying land resources, incurring diseases by reproducing rodents and insects that spread bacteria and virus, and deteriorating health conditions of human. It can also threaten urban environment and endanger ecosystem by polluting air and soil, and contaminating water[1]. Therefore, it is of great significance to monitor MSW in real time so as to improve the ability of managing MSW appropriately and restore urban ecosystem.
Field survey and in-situ investigation have been commonly used to identify MSW sites. However, it is time and cost consuming due to the random and wide distribution of MSW sites[2]. In addition, most of them are not on the registries and are changing all the time, which brings huge challenges to government agencies and non-governmental environmental protection organizations to manage the MSW properly. Remote sensing images have characteristics of wide coverages and timely update, and are thus much cheaper and more efficient than traditional methods of identifying MSW. As very-high-resolution (VHR) remote sensing technologies develop, more spatial details and abundant spectral information of MSW can be easily captured repeatably by VHR images. Prospects of employing high-resolution remote sensing image to identify and delineate MSW are more promising and clearer than ever before.
Until now, researches on identifying MSW using remote sensing technologies are still rare, which can be mainly attributed to its complexed and irregular spectra and geometry characteristics. Early researches relied heavily on visual interpretation for identifying MSW sites on images. For example, Bagheri et al. [3] interpreted waste dumps visually from aerial images with a spatial resolution of 0.5 m in Burlington, US, and created a thematic map of MSW sites. Qin et al. [4] visually interpreted MSW from GF-2 satellite images, and summarized that most of MSW dumps were bright and white, with uneven surface and obvious texture structures. Aside from the above characteristics, Zhang et al. [5] summarized some other characteristics of MSW, including ambiguous boundaries, irregular shapes and disorderly textures. Based on such characteristics, researchers have built interpretive marks for MSW identification [6]. However, visual interpretation of MSW is time- and cost- consuming. Therefore, some researchers have attempted to develop automated approaches for MSW extraction, such as a decision tree algorithm adopted by Liu and Liu [7], an unsupervised classification by Faizi et al. [8], and an algorithm based on least square principles by Al-Joburi [9]. These approaches have greatly improved the efficiency of identifying MSW.
Recently, deep learning has been widely used on VHR images for target recognition and object segmentation, including in the field of MSWs [1] [10-13]. Sun et al. [1] proposed a novel deep model BCA-Net for dumpsite detection, which achieved a high detection accuracy. Zhu et al. [10] proposed an automatic method for identification of construction waste based on transfer learning and Inception-V3 model, in which samples of construction waste and five other classes were input into the last layer of the Inception-V3 model to retrain the model. The overall recognition accuracy was claimed to reach 94.88%. However, the generalization ability of the model to other datasets is unknown. In addition, it is unsuitable to treat construction waste as equally as other classes. Xiao et al. [11] compared the performance of traditional machine learning methods with convolutional neural network (CNN) models on MSW detection, and concluded that CNN models were more powerful in reflecting the characteristics of MSW, and error detection and missing detection can be efficiently suppressed by synthetic samples. 
To sum up, most of the current deep learning-based approaches neglect the variability of MSW and simply treat MSW as an ordinary land use class, resulting in poor performance of detecting MSW. In addition, most of existing approaches focused on distinguishing MSW samples from others, and neglect the importance of delineating accurate boundaries of MSW. In this study, we propose a dual-branch network and an encoder-decoder architecture, named SCED-Net, for identifying and delineating MSWs. The contributions of this letter are threefold: (1) a dataset of MSWs were collected and produced, which can be used for training purposes; (2) a novel classification network employing a dual-branch network, which combines the advantages of CNN and Swin-Transformer (S-T) and extracts both local and global information, was proposed for identifying MSW patches; and (3) an innovative segmentation network, with an encoder-decoder architecture and shares the dual-branch in the encoder part, was proposed for delineating MSWs.
## II. METHODOLOGY
### A. Overall architecture of the proposed method
Fig. 1 illustrates the overall framework of the proposed method. It consists of two successive steps: (1) automatic identification of MSWs; and (2) refined delineation of MSW boundaries. In the identification task, the entire image is divided into small patches, and image classification is performed to categorize all patches into MSWs and non-MSWs. In the delineation task, image segmentation is performed on MSW patches to classify pixels and obtain accurate MSW boundaries.
In order to fulfill the two tasks above, a network named SCED-Net, which adopts a dual-branch network and an encoder-decoder architecture, is proposed. The detailed design of SCED-Net will be described in the following sections. 
### B. Automatic identification of MSWs
This step aims to identify whether and where MSWs exist. A patch-based classification method is adopted in which the original VHR imagery is first divided into squared patches with a fixed size of 224 × 224. To improve the accuracy of MSW identification, MSW is categorized into two sub-types: bared solid waste (BSW) and covered solid waste (CSW). The first type refers to the solid wastes that are exposed outside and include most of the agricultural waste, industrial waste, and some construction waste, see the first row in Fig. 2. The second type refers to solid wastes that are covered by dust screens and include some construction and domestic wastes, see the second row in Fig. 2. Therefore, each image patch will be classified into one of the four categories by our classification network: BSW, CSW, both, and others, in which ‘both’ refers to an image patch containing both BSW and CSW, and ‘others’ refers to an image patch containing no BSWs or CSWs. Below the details of the classification network are described. 

